2026 Formula One World Championship

The 2026 FIA Formula One World Championship is a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and the 77th running of the Formula One World Championship. It is recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship is contested over twenty-two Grands Prix held around the world. It began in March and is scheduled to end in December. Drivers and teams compete for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Lando Norris is the reigning World Drivers' Champion, while McLaren-Mercedes are the reigning World Constructors' Champions.

The 2026 season features a major set of regulation changes with a revised power unit configuration and new active aerodynamics. Audi, who acquired Sauber in 2024, enter as a works team with its own power unit, while Cadillac are making their debut in the championship using Ferrari power units, marking the first time an eleventh team has competed since 2016. Honda, through its Honda Racing Corporation subsidiary, entered into an exclusive works team agreement with Aston Martin, and are supplying them with their own power unit after ending its relationship with Red Bull Racing. Ford returned to the sport for the first time since 2004, supporting Red Bull Powertrains in supplying power units to Red Bull Racing and Racing Bulls. Renault is no longer an engine supplier as Alpine switched to Mercedes power units.

Team Changes

Cadillac became the eleventh team, marking Cadillac's first appearance in the series and the first new team on the grid since Haas in 2016. The team, initially using Ferrari power units and gearboxes,would transition to a power unit developed in-house by its parent company, General Motors, in collaboration with TWG Motorsports.[45] This power unit programme has received approval from the FIA and is scheduled to be introduced from the 2029 season. Cadillac had previously tried to enter Formula One in conjunction with Andretti Global.

Three new engine manufacturers entered Formula One, coinciding with the engine regulation changes. Audi entered the sport for the first time, having purchased the existing Sauber team in 2024. Audi's predecessor company Auto Union did compete in Grand Prix racing prior to World War II and the inception of the World Championship in 1950.[49] The team raced in 2024 and 2025 as Kick Sauber, using Ferrari engines, before it became the Audi factory team in 2026. Thus, Ferrari is supplying Haas and Cadillac as customer teams.

Ford returned to Formula One as an engine supplier for the first time since it provided engines for its former customer team Jordan in 2004.[51] It formed a partnership with Red Bull Powertrains, which supplies Red Bull Racing and their second team Racing Bulls. Honda, which partially withdrew from Formula One in 2021 whilst remaining partners of Red Bull Powertrains, split from the two Red Bull-owned teams and relaunched a fully-independent engine programme supplying Aston Martin under the Honda Racing Corporation subsidiary. Aston Martin had used Mercedes power units since they re-joined the sport, who had supplied engines to Aston Martin's predecessors since 2009. Honda had previously collaborated with Aston Martin's predecessor Jordan from 1998 to 2002.

Renault ceased to provide engines for Alpine from 2026 after achieving poor results since the beginning of the hybrid power unit regulations in 2014. 2026 is thus the first season without Renault as engine supplier since the 2000 championship. Alpine became a customer team, as opposed to a full works outfit, as had been the case since Renault reacquired Team Enstone ahead of the 2016 season. Alpine became a customer team of Mercedes, utilising their engines and gearboxes from this season onwards; up until this point, 2015 marked the last time a rendition of Team Enstone used customer Mercedes engines, competing as Lotus.

Cancelled Grands Prix
Main article: 2026 Bahrain and Saudi Arabian Grands Prix
The Bahrain and Saudi Arabian Grands Prix were included on the original calendar published by the World Motor Sport Council and were contracted for the 2026 season, but were postponed following the outbreak of the Iran war. Concerns revolving around safety following the breakout of the war were taken into consideration, with the FIA monitoring the situation as it unfolded.[58] Ultimately, the FIA chose to cancel both races.[59][60][61] As the Grands Prix were to be held so early on in the season, replacement races could not be organised in short notice.[62] The cancellations also extended to the three feeder series races that were intended to be held at those venues.[59][63]

Calendar changes
The Spanish Grand Prix moved from the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya in Montmeló to a new street circuit in Madrid built around the IFEMA.[64] The Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya continues to host a race under the name Barcelona-Catalunya Grand Prix.[65] The Emilia Romagna Grand Prix in Imola was discontinued after their contract to host their race until 2025 was not renewed.[55] The Azerbaijan Grand Prix is to be held on a Saturday following a request from the promoter and relevant government stakeholders to accommodate Azerbaijan's Remembrance Day.[57][66]

Regulation changes
Financial, power unit, aerodynamic, geometric, and safety regulations were altered for the 2026 season.[67]

Financial regulation
For 2026, the Formula One cost cap for team operational expenditures was increased from $135 million to $215 million. This was primarily due to inflation adjustments and the inclusion of costs that were previously exempted from the cap. Key expenses remaining outside the cost cap include driver salaries, the salaries of the three highest-paid team members, marketing, travel and hospitality costs, as well as infrastructure investments.[68][69][70][71] A separate cost cap for power unit manufacturers, which was introduced in 2023, was also increased from $95 million to $130 million from 2026 onwards to support the development of the new hybrid engines.[72][73][74]

Technical regulations
Power units
New power unit regulations have been introduced for the 2026 season.[75][76] The new power units still produce over 1,000 bhp (750 kW), although the power comes from different sources. The engine regulations saw the turbocharged 1.6-litre V6 internal combustion engine configuration used since 2014 retained. However, the MGU-H (Motor Generator Unit – Heat), which has also been in use since 2014, has been removed, while the MGU-K (Motor Generator Unit – Kinetic) output increased to 470 bhp (350 kW) from 160 bhp (120 kW). The power output of the internal combustion part of the power unit decreased to 540 bhp (400 kW) from 850 bhp (630 kW). Fuel flow rates are measured and limited based on energy, rather than mass of the fuel itself. The power units use a fully sustainable fuel being developed by Formula One.[77][78] The power units are expected to recover twice as much electrical energy as before.[79]

During the Commission meeting in early 2025, it was agreed to explore for catch-up options for power unit development for manufacturers who may have fallen behind their competitors in the initial development phase. The Commission also suggested that a relevant advisory committee look at whether the energy deployment of new power units should be reduced in race trim from the planned 470 bhp (350 kW) after some teams became concerned about the possibility of their cars running out of deployable energy in a race.[80]

Car size and aerodynamics
On 6 June 2024, the 2026 car concept was revealed. The concept featured new active aerodynamics in both the front and rear wings. The concept saw the elimination of the drag reduction system, being replaced by a new overtake mode, initially referred to as manual override mode.[81] The wheelbase was reduced from 360 cm (140 in) to 340 cm (130 in), the width was reduced from 200 cm (79 in) to 190 cm (75 in), and the minimum mass was reduced by 30 kg (66 lb). The tyres' widths were also reduced by 2.5 cm (0.98 in) on the front pair and by 3.0 cm (1.2 in) on the rears.[79][82] The floor reduced ground effect to ease the issues cars have suffered with porpoising.[83]

In October 2024, FIA announced that the downforce reduction of the 2026 cars compared to the 2022–2025 generation of cars would be less than initially proposed for performance and safety reasons.[84] Later in the month, the FIA confirmed that the reduction in downforce from the 2026 generation of cars would be around 15%, a significantly smaller reduction than the originally drafted regulations which the FIA claimed had given the 2026 cars downforce reduction of over 40% compared to their predecessors. This would make the 2026 cars approximately two seconds slower a lap than the 2022–2025 generation of cars rather than the four seconds slower initially envisaged.[85] On 17 December 2025, Formula One announced the official terms describing features of the 2026 cars. The term "boost mode" is used to describe the normal deployment of the energy recovery system (ERS) to defend or attack; "active aerodynamics" (or simply "active aero") to describe the moveable front and rear wing elements – in both higher and lower drag/downforce configuration; "recharge" to describe when a car is harvesting electrical energy; and "overtake mode" to describe a mode where extra energy stored is used in order to help one driver overtake another, but only if the driver behind is within one second of the one ahead (similar to pre-2026 DRS deployment rules).[86][87]

Safety features
The regulations for the front impact structure (FIS) were updated with the intent to enhance safety during crashes. A two-stage FIS design has been introduced to address previous issues where the structure detached near the survival cell after a primary collision, leaving the vehicle vulnerable to further impacts. Side intrusion protection, particularly around the cockpit and fuel cell was also improved. These upgrades aim to shield critical areas of the car during side collisions, while maintaining the vehicle's weight. The roll hoop's strength was improved, withstanding loads increased from 16 g to 20 g, aligning with safety standards of other single-seater series. The load testing requirements were raised from 141 kN to 167 kN.[88] To further safeguard drivers and track marshals, lateral safety lights were mandated. These lights display the energy recovery system (ERS) status of a car when it stops on track, providing visual indicators of potential electrical risks, especially in emergency situations.[88]

Sporting regulations
Driver numbers
The rules surrounding the permanent driver numbering system introduced in 2014 was modified. Drivers are permitted to change their race number during their careers pending permission from the FIA and any past driver that may have used a requested number.[89][90]

Car liveries
In order to discourage teams leaving excessive amounts of exposed black carbon on their cars in order to save weight, the FIA mandated that a minimum of 55% of the surface area when viewed from the side and above must be covered by painted or stickered liveries.[91]

Cooling vests and special heat provisions
Driver cooling vests are mandated when the FIA declares a heat hazard during a race weekend. Prior to 2026, the cooling vest was optional. Additionally, the vest underwent a redesign.[92]

Stewarding reviews
For 2026, stewards have the option to initiate a review based on new evidence. Under the previous version of the ISC, a competitor had to submit a right of review request for any decision to be reviewed. The option for competitors to submit a right of review remains in place. Additionally, an "out of competition" stewards panel was introduced for time sensitive decisions that cannot wait until the next event.[93]

Regulations for specific events
In 2026, the requirement to make a minimum two-stop strategy at the Monaco Grand Prix was dropped.[94] This was implemented in the 2025 race in an effort to promote better racing,[95] but teams and drivers considered that it did not improve the racing quality and overtake opportunities.[96][97]

Season summary
Pre-season
Three pre-season tests were held, a significant expansion over previous years' testing programs to account for the new chassis and engine regulations.[98] The first was a private test which took place at the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya from 26 to 30 January, with teams allowed to run in a maximum of three of the five days. All teams ran in the private test except Williams.[57][99] Lewis Hamilton (Ferrari) set the fastest time in the five-day test.[100] The second test was held at the Bahrain International Circuit from 11–13 February, with Kimi Antonelli (Mercedes) setting the fastest time in the three-day test.[101] The third test was also held at the same venue from 18–20 February, with Charles Leclerc (Ferrari) setting the fastest time across the three-day test.[57][102]

Opening rounds
Mercedes' George Russell took pole position for the season opening Australian Grand Prix, ahead of teammate Kimi Antonelli. Isack Hadjar qualified third on his debut for Red Bull.[103] Russell went on to secure victory, with Antonelli finishing second to complete a Mercedes one–two. Leclerc finished third, while Hamilton came home in fourth. Reigning World Champion Lando Norris finished fifth for McLaren, having been the team's only starter after Oscar Piastri crashed while driving to the grid before the race. Max Verstappen recovered from 20th on the grid, due to a crash in qualifying, to finish sixth, ahead of Oliver Bearman and rookie Arvid Lindblad. Gabriel Bortoleto and Pierre Gasly completed the top ten and the points-scoring positions. Five drivers retired from the race.[104][105][106] In the Drivers' Championship, Russell took the lead for the first time in his career with 25 points, ahead of his teammate Antonelli with 18 points and Leclerc with 15 points.

Russell took his maiden sprint pole position for the Chinese Grand Prix, ahead of Antonelli and Norris.[108] The opening laps saw Hamilton take the lead, as he exchanged positions several times with Russell. [109] Hamilton and Leclerc fought for podium places with the latter gaining the advantage. Antonelli dropped down the order in the opening laps, only to have his recovery to second place be thwarted by a penalty from causing a collision with Hadjar on the opening lap, ultimately finishing fifth. Thus, the podium was rounded out by Russell, Leclerc and Hamilton.[110] Antonelli later became the youngest ever Formula One pole-sitter after taking pole position for the main race, while teammate Russell recovered from a mechanical issue to qualify second.[111] Before the race, Norris, Piastri, Bortoleto, and Albon all did not start due to car issues. The opening lap saw Hamilton reach the lead within the first few turns, while Leclerc overtook Russell to take second. Antonelli shortly regained the lead positions over Leclerc and Hamilton, after two laps. Following Stroll's battery issue resulting in being stranded at turn 1, most of the grid initially on the medium compound moved to a one stop strategy. From there, Antonelli held onto the lead to claim his maiden victory, while Hamilton achieved his first podium since the 2024 Las Vegas Grand Prix. Colapinto also scored his first points for Alpine, and his first since the 2024 United States Grand Prix at Williams.

Scoring system
Further information: List of Formula One points systems
Points are awarded to the top ten classified drivers in the race and to the top eight finishers in the sprint.[114][d] In the case of a tie on points, a countback system is used where the driver with the most Grand Prix wins is ranked higher. If the number of wins is identical, the number of second places is considered, and so on.


